LABS: Escaping Contravariance Hell (#921)
Quansight/Quansight-website: apps/labs/posts/escaping-lyskov-substitution-hell.md

```

## What's a real-world example where this is useful?

A real-world example where this concept shows up is the library [Narwhals](github.com/narwhals-dev/narwhals). There, we find protocols `CompliantDataFrame` and `CompliantSeries` which are implemented for different backends:

- For PyArrow, there's `ArrowDataFrame` and `ArrowSeries`.
- For Polars, there's `PolarsDataFrame` and `PolarsSeries`.
- ...similar patterns exist for other dataframe backends like pandas, DuckDB, and more.

The `CompliantDataFrame` protocol has some methods which accept `CompliantSeries` as parameters, such as:

```py
class CompliantDataFrame:
    # [...]
    def __getitem__(self, item: CompliantSeries) -> Self:
        # [...]
```

Narwhals requires that `ArrowDataFrame.__getitem__` accepts `ArrowSeries` for `item`, and that `PolarsDataFrame.__getitem__` accepts `PolarsSeries` for `item`. To enforce this, `CompliantDataFrame` is defined as generic in `CompliantSeriesT`, which is a `TypeVar` bound to `CompliantSeries`. Like this, type checkers are appeased, and certain kinds of bugs can be sussed out before even running the code.

## Conclusion, and how to improve

> We've learned about how to address a situation in which mysterious words like "Lyskov Substitution" and "contravariance" make it feel like the only way to appease type checkers is to slap a bunch `Any` types all over the place. We then looked at how to resolve the issue using `Generic` and `TypeVar`. By reducing the number of cases where you need to use `Any`, your IDE (interactive development environment) will provide you with helpful suggestion before you even run your code, and you'll leverage type checkers to their full potential.

Reviewer: You might need to rename some files as well @MarcoGorelli 😄 

- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liskov_substitution_principle
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbara_Liskov

```suggestion
We've learned about how to address a situation in which mysterious terms like "Liskov Substitution" and "contravariance" make it feel like the only way to appease type checkers is to slap a bunch `Any` types all over the place. We then looked at how to resolve the issue using `Generic` and `TypeVar`. By reducing the number of cases where you need to use `Any`, your IDE (interactive development environment) will provide you with helpful suggestion before you even run your code, and you'll leverage type checkers to their full potential.
```
